---
  layout: page
  title: API V3
  has_children: true
  has_toc: false
  nav_order: 5
---

# API V3

[API V3]{:target="apidoc"} consist of JavaScript functions and objects bundled in [ECMAScript Modules][es-modules-spec] (ES Modules).

[API V3]{:target="apidoc"} can only be used with the [Graal.JS][Graal.JS] scripting engine.
It can't be used with other scripting engines, neither with the Nashorn nor with the Rhino engine.

[API V3]{:target="apidoc"} replaces [API V2]{:target="apidoc"} which was based on [CommonJS module].

# The scripting context

The scripting context is populated with the following objects:

* <code class="inline">require()</code>

  <code class="inline">require()</code> is a global function to load [CommonJS Modules][CommonJS Module]. You can use 
  <code class="inline">require()</code> to load custom CommonJS-modules. However, [API V3]{:target="apidoc"} is 
  implemented as ES Modules. Its modules are loaded with ECMAScript <code class="inline">import</code>-statements.

In contrast to the [API V1]{:target="apidoc"} there is no global <code class="inline">josm</code> object in the context. You
have to explicitly load it as an ES Module:

```js
// import josm from an ES Module
import josm from 'josm'
```

# JavaScript version

Graal.JS supports the latest JavaScript version, ECMAScript 2015, and later.

For instance, the following JavaScript features are now supported:

```js
// import of ES Modules and object destructuring; trailing semicolons not necessary
// anymore
import { Api } from 'josm/api'

// let assignment
let counter = 0
// constants
const value = "foo"
```

We recommend to use the [JavaScript Standard Style](https://standardjs.com/). The [API V3]{:target="apidoc"}, for instance,

* uses 2 spaces for indentation
* uses single quotes for strings
* doesn't use semicolons


[es-modules-spec]: https://262.ecma-international.org/6.0/#sec-modules
[CommonJS module]: http://www.commonjs.org/specs/modules/1.0/
[josm]: ../api/v2/module-josm.html
[Graal.JS]: https://github.com/graalvm/graaljs
[API V3]: ../../api/v3/module-josm.html
[API V1]: ../../api/v1/module-josm.html