---
  layout: page
  title: API V1
  has_children: true
  nav_order: 5
---

# API V1
{: .no_toc }

1. TOC
{: toc }

{% include v1-deprecated.md %}


[API V1]{:target="apidoc"} consist of JavaScript functions and objects bundled in modules.

[API V1]{:target="apidoc"} can only be used with the Mozilla Rhino scripting engine included in the plugin. Neither GraalJS nor Nashorn can execute scripts based on API V1.

# The scripting context

The embedded scripting engine Mozilla Rhino runs scripts in a **scripting context**. There is only one
context for all scripts in JOSM. It is initialized when the scripting plugin starts and
shuts down when JOSM terminates.

The context is populated with the following two objects:

* <code class="inline">josm</code>

  This global object represents the [running JOSM instance][josm].

* <code class="inline">require()</code>

  <code class="inline">require()</code> is a global function to load [CommonJS Modules](modules).

# Beware of variables in the global scope

All variables declared outside of a function have global scope.

* Open the scripting console, run the following script, then close the console.

```js
var util = require("josm/util");
var counter = 1;
util.println("counter value: " + counter);
```

* Open the scripting console again and run the following script:

```js
var util = require("josm/util");
util.println("counter value: " + counter);
```

The variable <code class="inline">counter</code> still exists in the global scope, and the scripts still outputs <code class="inline">counter value: 1</code>.

You can use a **self-executing anonymous function** to ensure that your script doesn't pollute the global scope and that there are no interferences with already-defined variables.

Here's an example of this pattern:

```js
(function() { // the self-executing anonymous function
  var util = require("josm/util");
  /*
   * counter is defined in the scope of the self-executing anonymous function,
   * not in the global scope
   */
  var counter = 1;
  util.println("counter value: " + counter);
})();
```


[josm]: ../../api/v1/module-josm.html
[API V1]: ../../api/v1/module-josm.html
